Kirschenbaum Presentation
1.	Digital Humanities is all the rage: “whoever asks the question has not gone looking very hard”
a.	Supports with a brief history and catalog of events and venues
i.	Similar to Hockey’s account, although abbreviated

2.	Method over means: “more akin to a common methodological outlook than an investment in any one specific set of texts or even technologies”
a.	Quantitative and/or qualitative
b.	Contrast Moretti: mentions both, but emphasizes qualitative and specific set of tools

3.	Communicative
a.	“a social undertaking. It harbors networks of people who have been working together, sharing research, arguing, competing, and collaborating for many years.”
i.	Hockey: “The internet also made it possible to carry out collaborative projects in a way that was never possible before”
ii.	Moretti: “quantitative work is truly cooperation: not only in the pragmatic sense … but because such data are ideally independent from any individual researcher, and thus can be shared by others…”

4.	Key Events
a.	The Blackwell Companion to Digital Humanities
b.	Combining the ACH (Association for Computers and the Humanities) and the ALLC (Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing) under the umbrella structure of the ADHO (Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations)
c.	2006 Launch of the Digital Humanities Initiative by the National Endowment for the Humanities
d.	Twitter

5.	What’s it doing in English Departments (phenomenological account, not argumentative)
a.	“English departments have historically been hospitable settings for this kind of work”
i.	Text is the most tractable data type, after numbers (data processing)
ii.	Link between computers and composition
iii.	“pitch-perfect convergence between the intense conversations around editorial theory and method in the 1980s and the widespread means to implement electronic archives and editions very soon after”
1.	Jerome McGann’s Rosetti Archive was “paradigmatic
2.	???
iv.	“Belle-lettristic project around hypertext and other forms of electronic literature”
1.	???
v.	Openness of English departments to cultural studies
vi.	Simultaneous explosion of e-reading and digitation projects

6.	“Digital humanities today is about a scholarship (and a pedagogy) that is publically visible in ways to which we are generally unaccustomed, … that are bound up with infrastructure in ways that are deeper and more explicit than we are generally accustomed to, … that are collaborative and depend upon networks of people, and that live an active, 24-7 life online. 
a.	Punctuated ending “isn’t that something you want in your English department?”
b.	Use of Orwellian language and imagery calls for question; non-rhetorical.

7.	Parting questions
a.	“digital humanities … a culture that values collaboration, openness, nonhierarchical relations, and agility”
i.	How universal is this?
ii.	What are the inherent claims? (negative connotation to hierarchical structures?)
b.	“serves to focus the anxiety and even outrage of individual scholars over their own lack of agency amid the turmoil in their institutions and profession.”
i.	Strongly slanted tone. Bitterness?
ii.	What is the argument here?
[Presentation 1-20.docx](https://github.com/CuriousjoeTug20704/Kerschbaum/files/94717/Presentation.1-20.docx)
